hey hello welcome everyone um so welcome
to the first episode of uh coach by
triple do uh so it's a very exciting
episode I mean exciting series we've
been all we've all been looking forward
to and uh you know we have about 22
speakers uh lined up uh for the year and
uh you get you'll get to hear from you
know leaders veterans in the marketing
space uh
over the next one year and the objective
of this is to um you know make sure that
you have all the Practical knowledge uh
uh you know taken uh and you can have a
plugin play Playbook at the end of the
day when you leave this uh you know
webinar so for the first episode we have
Rory uh who's going to Kickstart this
session and we're extremely fortunate uh
uh to have Rory on inaugurating this
coach uh for us uh a brief introduction
about rori rori is currently the head of
SEO and content HubSpot prior to this he
was uh working as an inbound marketing
manager at remote.com which was scaling
at a very very rapid pace and he was
taking care of all uh things related to
inbound marketing before which he was
working with a growth marketing agency
called as symmetrical so this experience
is immense and at the end of the episode
you will have immense takeaways uh for
your organization and for you personally
and uh we're really looking forward to
having you and thanks for taking the
time to attend this and I Mahesh I'll be
the host of uh you know uh this entire
series uh and I work as a director of
growth the triple
D overi and uh it's all yours from now
uh again uh Team uh as a as a ground
rule uh we won't be having any questions
and answer happening during the session
so the session will roughly go on for
about 35 to 40 minutes and in the
meanwhile you can uh log in your
questions in the Q&A section and we'll
collate it and post a questions towards
the end of the session to RI the
recording session will also be shared uh
you know after the session is over
through email and and uh you can reach
out to us in case of any queries in the
future or if you want uh any particular
materials from the session as well how
you RI again really great having you
here and doing this for triple
do thank you Mahesh and um yeah really
pleased to be here to kick off the coach
by triple Dart series um so thank you
everyone for joining I'm going to share
my screen now and bring up the
presentation for
today so
today we're going to be talking about I
think it's just
loading let me know when you can see my
screen I don't think you can see my
screen yet if I'm not mistaken mahish
could you confirm is it saying loading
yeah it's loading yes it is okay let me
try this
again um slideshow there we are it
always works the second time around so
yes um hi everyone today we'll be
talking about integrating audience
intelligence and social listening to
your content marketing playbook in
2024 and specifically how you can go
about building SEO personas by
integrating those data sources that are
going to help you to power your content
marketing Playbook um future proofing it
in the age of AI disruption so as mahes
mentioned I am VY head of content SEO at
hopspot um I've got just over a decade's
worth of experience driving SEO and
growth marketing for leading B2B SAS
Brands and
startups uh I'd love to connect so you
can find me on X LinkedIn and my website
at ww. Roy hope.com
so to set the scene here today I wanted
to share the results of a survey that I
did of seos on X to better understand
how they develop their SEO content
strategies um mainly to understand their
pain points but also whether or not they
were using social data during the
process because um when first coming up
with this Playbook I had a a hypothesis
that seos weren't using social data and
that it could help to alleviate a number
of the pain points that they face When
developing content marketing playbooks
and what were the results well 40% of
seos say they struggle to deliver
consistent high quality content on a
regular basis 88% seos said they would
like to speed up link
prospecting
63% said that keyword data doesn't
provide enough information on the
interests and behaviors of their target
audience and that's Stark considering
that many seos rely primarily on keyword
data and only 16% of seos were
incorporating social media data into
their SEO strategies so we can see a
number of pain points here and at the
end that not many seos are actually
considering social data When developing
their their content marketing
Playbook so what we're going to cover
today really is our SEO pers owners can
go about solving and alleviating a
number of those pain points um so we'll
run through what SEO personas are and
why they're important how you can
develop SEO personas by integrating data
sources and how you can use your SEO
personas to then improve your SEO
content strategy um laddering up into
your wider content marketing
Playbook so what are SEO personas well
they are target audience segments
they're built by integrating multiple
data
sources and you can have multiple SEO
personas per keyword topic that you're
targeting for your
business why are they important well
they inform the content topics style
tone and pain points that you want to
consider in your content marketing
strategy they allow you to identify the
influences interests for influence
marketing and SEO
strategies and as a result you can then
do link acquisition at scale for the
keyword topics that you want to Target
through the likes of digital PR
campaigns so you can see here how these
SEO personas are the are the foundation
for helping to alleviate a number of the
pain points that seos are facing in
terms of generating consistent high
quality content prospecting uh link
opportunities um and understanding the
behaviors and interests of their target
audiences that are searching around
their keyword topics we'll do we'll run
through a use case today so we'll talk
about HubSpot and specifically the CRM
keyword topic and how you can go about
developing SEO personas that would work
to optimize for the key the CRM keyword
topic um if you were in HubSpot
shoes so we'll start with how you go
about developing those SEO personas now
on in the diagram here we've got on the
left hand side we've got the traditional
keyword intelligence tools that many of
you may be familiar with Google ads
Google search console ah sem Rush get
start these tools allow you to identify
keywords segment keywords track
competitors that also rank for those
keywords and really develop your keyword
strategy on the right hand side we have
our audience intelligence and social
listening tools audience hoot Suite
Pulsa spark Toro and meltwater and now
these tools allow you to gather data to
better understand the behaviors and
interests of those that are searching
uh using the keyword topics that you
identify through the first stage uh the
keyword intelligence phase and primarily
what we're doing here with the
development of SE personas is we're
integrating our keyword intelligence
with our audience intelligence and
social listening data which sort of
ladders up into audience intelligence um
and that will allow us to again develop
our SEO personas and use those as the
foundations to our content marketing
Playbook with SEO at its Center or SEO
success at its
Center so to begin with you know you
really have to go through the keyword
intelligence process I like to classify
the keyword intelligence process into
three core stages keyword research
search landscape analysis and then
developing your keyword targeting
strategy from the previous two stages I
presume this will be very familiar with
many seos or content marketers uh at The
Talk today but it's at this stage then
when you get to your search landscape
analysis is that you're going to
integrate and create audience
intelligence reports based on your SEO
competitors that you identify at that
stage and then use that to understand
your SEO personas that then gets moved
across when you are starting to develop
your keyword targeting strategy you look
at which influences the SEO personas
behind your keyword topic are influenced
by and you can use that to develop an
audience first SEO strategy that will
then fuel your playbook uh moving
forwards so we'll go into keyword
research at a top level first um so with
keyword research you first want to
consider keyword identification so again
using the likes of Google ads search
console AHF semrush Excel and G sheets
allows you to identify hundreds
thousands tens of thousands potentially
hundreds of thousands of keywords that
are relevant to your products and
services once you've done the keyword
identification phase it's important
important to segment your keywords into
topics and subtopics so let's use the
HubSpot CRM or HubSpot as an example
here and look at a number of keyword
topics that HubSpot may want to Target
such as CRM marketing software and sales
software these would be our primary
topics and we would look to tag our
keywords to those primary topics during
the segmentation phase but we also want
to consider our subtopics they may be
the likes of solutions benefits or
Enterprise and they generally indicate
various varying user intents and they
allow you to tag your keywords
granularly during the keyword research
phase because you're going to use that
data to then uh identify your SEO
competitors at a keyword topic level
further down the line so here are some
examples I'll run through CRM Solutions
you can see it's relevant to the topic
CRM but you would also want to tag it as
solutions to to indicate that
transactional intent and marketing
software benefits for for marketing
software with a subtopic of benefits
which is an informational intent and
then Enterprise sales software which is
relevant to the sales software topic but
there's also a subtopic there of
Enterprise that has a mix of of
informational and transactional
intent once you've got your keywords
identified and segmented you're going to
want to move on to your search landscape
analyses now your search landscape
analysis consists of identifying your
SEO competitors that rank the best
before the best for those topics and
subtopics that you've identified at the
previous stage you can conduct a gap
analysis to see where your website is
performing versus those SEO competitors
for those topics that you want to Target
you can also conduct Sur intent analyses
to just confirm your hypotheses around
the intents of your subtopics and to do
that you go through the process of
template analysis to reverse engineer
the intents and as a result of this you
prioritize your keywords ahead of
building out a keyword targeting
strategy but it's at this stage where
you're going to want to integrate an
audience intelligence report so
basically bringing in audience
intelligence data um to your search
landscape analysis to really understand
and identify who your SEO personas are
so the phases here include uploading
your SEO competitors identified during
the search landscape analysis into an
audience intelligence tool
using that to pull back data that
uncovers your keyword level SEO personas
and you can also identify where you have
overlaps between keyword topics that
have the same audience segments
searching within them or or SEO
personas so if we look at that search
landscape analysis process before we
create our audience intelligence report
we have the keyword identification phase
that we went through we will then tag
our keywords based on topics and
subtopics as part of the segment ation
process that will give us our keyword
rankings not just for our website but
also for those other websites that rank
for the topic or subtopic that you're
analyzing I suggest you export that data
from the likes of AHF semrush or get
stat transfer it into Excel and format
it and then you can pivot table on that
data to identify the best performers for
those various keyword topics that you
want to Target and they are your SEO
competitors they're not always Direct
competitors they may be Publications or
other types of websites that do compete
with you in the search
results and at that point you've got
your your SEO competitors and you can do
your search landscape analysis as
mentioned in the previous slide where
you're looking at template analyses
refining intents um and prioritizing
your keywords based upon the best
opportunities once again this is quite a
familiar process I expect to many seos
here but the next stage is when we're
going to bring in our audience
intelligence data to to to build our SEO
personas so if we look at the CRM
keyword topic here now I have included
fictional data here in real life it
looks something like this but if we were
to analyze say 60 keywords for that have
been tagged as a CRM topic to understand
which websites rank for the most number
of keywords that have being tagged as
CRM but also their average rank the
results will show you the the analysis
will show you the top ranking or best
performers uh for that topic these are
your SEO competitors so for CRM we have
HubSpot Zoho Salesforce pipe Drive
active campaign and maretto so I would
classify these as my SEO competitors in
this stage of building out my SEO
personas and what you're going to want
to do crucially is map those SEO
competitors that you see in the search
results that you see through your
keyword data across to their relevant X
profiles formerly known as Twitter uh to
their then use those handles those X
handles when you go about creating an
audience intelligence report or an
audience report in an audience
intelligence software or platform so I'm
familiar with audience uh as my
preferred tool of choice but there are
many others as I mentioned earlier spark
Toro is another example here and what
you're going to want to do is you're
going to want to go into creating an
audience intelligence report they're
named differently in the different tools
but an audience it's called an audience
intelligence report under the insights
category so you're going to want to go
in and create a report named your
keyword topic and then SEO personas so I
would call mine because I'm interested
in the CRM keyword topic I will call it
CRM SEO personas I am going to create an
audience a profiles attribute report
where the tool will analyze the
followers of the handles that I upload
to understand their interests uh and
behaviors through big data analyses and
what I'm going to want to do is I'm
going to want to upload my SEO
competitors for the CRM keyword topic
and of course this could vary dependent
on the topic that you are targeting so
that as I mentioned will include
Salesforce active campaign Zoho Adobe
maretto and pipe drive and I will also
upload the HubSpot or the website that I
am in in responsible for and what you
then get from an audience intelligence
platform specifically audience in this
instance is a a report that has analyzed
using big data analysis the social
behavioral data of all of those 250,000
members that have been included in the
analyses because there is a cut off
point um that follow any of those SEO
competitors for CRM and as we can see
here the tool has identified that there
are marketing creative professionals
Cloud engineers and developers and web
entrepreneurs and digital marketers
there three separate audience segments
that are searching around the CRM
keyword topic we're mapping data from X
across into uh basically into Google
we're using Google as an indicator of
what to upload into an audience
intelligence report to get that
additional information about The Who
Behind our keyword topic so let's dive
into what that looks like so you can
then explore your SEO personas or your
audience segments as they're called in
the tools um in Greater depth
understanding their influences um their
influence entities so let's take a look
at the creative um professionals here so
if I dive in to this segment which makes
up 21.6% of those that follow the CRM
SEO
competitors we can see here all of the
uh influences and brands that those
people engage with and follow or follow
uh on a regular basis and within the
platform you get Affinity data
uniqueness scores and suddenly I'm
getting a better picture of exactly who
this target audience is behind the CRM
keyword topic or at least one of them
and this is constituting a single SEO
Persona within the CRM keyword
topic so what happens there well what
happens next sorry well what you can do
is you can export that data and you can
start to look uh you can start to get a
good understanding of who this uh
marketing creative professional is uh
they engage with and follow social media
example
marketing week campaign marketing B2B uh
the uh campaign magazine and all of this
all of these are my influencer entities
that I will that I will eventually
upload into a social listening tool to
get a better understanding of what my
SEO personas are currently interested in
or consuming let's take a quick look at
another SEO Persona here so we've got
our Cloud Engineers if I dive into this
segment within the CRM keyword topic we
can see here that our Cloud engineers
and web developers are influenced by the
likes of The Hacker News a16z Computer
World stripe MIT AWS Google cloud and
again we're getting different influencer
entities here for the cloud Engineers
than we did for the marketing creative
professionals but they are both active
audiences that would be interested in
CRM solutions that will then be
important for when we're developing our
content marketing playbook for targeting
the CRM
uh keyword topic finally we'll take a
look at our entrepreneurs and digital
marketers which is about
11.2% of the total audience and we can
see here that they are uh engaging with
and following founder um CMI uh search
engine Journal search engine watch
semrush Digital Trends growth hackers
among others again different influencer
entities than the previous two
audiences so now that we've got a a
better understanding of those St
personas within the CRM keyword topic
how can we use them well what we can do
is we can well we have identified those
influencer entities and we can use those
to prospect targets for link acquisition
that we may um Target through through
digital PR campaigns a key factor in in
ranking um for SEO is of course building
links and
Authority you can also use those seus to
inform your social lisening and web
monitoring setups and as a result it
should give you better idea generation
for SEO topic modeling and digital PR
campaigns which are going to be very
important as you reach that final stage
of your um of your playbook which will
be developing your keyword targeting
strategy and fueling it uh with regular
content again uh these were concerns we
saw in the early uh survey of the the
talk that seos have and this helps to
alleviate those concerns so we've got
our SEO personas we know the keyword
topics we want to Target it's time to
develop our keyword targeting strategy
and and fuel that uh that that that
strategy with
content at this stage you're going to be
developing your SEO content plan you're
going to be clustering your keywords um
cleaning them and clustering them based
on your topics and subtopics you've
already you've got them prioritized at
this stage now you need to create
content to bolster the performance for
those keyword topics and you've got to
fuel it by building back links on a
regular basis through white ha hat
techniques of course which really boils
down to PR and Partnerships in
2014 but at this stage the way to level
up and supercharge that th those key
parts of your keyword targeting strategy
is to uh conduct influencer entity
analysis uh using your SEO personas and
understanding who their influenc
entities are and what you'll want to do
here is set up Social listening on the
top one to 5% of your SEO persona's
influencer entities you can also do
content analysis on those influencer
entities using the likes of buz suumo um
except that there's many other tools buz
suumo is one that comes to mind ahit
draft semrush and that will allow you to
then go about building out your your SEO
topic modeling um in line with those
priority keyword topics and we're going
to go through how you can do this for
CRM uh in the next few
slides so going back to the basics of
SEO you should always have SEO pillar
Pages for the topics that you want to
Target so in line with the use case that
we've been exploring in today's session
we talked about CRM marketing software
and sales software at HubSpot we will
have different pillar pages that cover a
wide um variety of of of information and
subtopics uh for our primary topic um
for each of those for each of those
primary topics and each one will have
its own uh URL what we're going to want
to do is we're going to want to build
out satellite Pages for these pillar
pages to support their performance um
these are signals that search engines
like to see when you're publishing new
fresh unique content that is helpful for
users um and also you want to create
content that can earn links and then
internally link back across to your
pillar pages to bolster the performance
of every URL uh in the topic
cluster so what you can do here is
you're going to go and upload into
social listening tools your influencer
entities for the SEO personas that
you've identified you can use a variety
of tools here you can use Pulsar to
upload the X accounts of the influencer
entities into the platform uh you could
also use hoot sues list analyses uh to
to monitor uh frequent sues or tweets or
X posts in relation to those influenc
entities so let's take a look at how you
would go about setting that up for the
Creative Marketing professional so as we
saw earlier within the CRM keyword topic
we have the Creative Marketing
professional uh SEO Persona uh we know
the influences uh their influence
entities as outlined here on this slide
and what we're going to want to do now
is we're going to want to upload those
influencer entities into a social
listening tool to stay on the pulse of
the latest trends um conversations that
are that are happening in real time to
then inform the content that we're going
to create to bolster the performance of
our CRM keyword topic um as we as we saw
earlier on ideas can often run dry very
quickly if you're only using keyword
data um you know that mainly that's
Evergreen uh data there it's not
refreshed very often whereas social data
is very Dynamic and can really inform uh
a much more Dynamic and effective
content and link strategy in support of
your keyword topic uh your priority
keyword topics so you're using this data
to inform that content marketing
Playbook I recommend using something
like HootSuite it's relatively low cost
for um Freelancers and and agencies or
in-house teams um used to have a free
solution I think now there is it's it's
paid um but what you can do here is use
uh lists um to set up lists for your
various SEO personas and track their
influencer entities within those lists
to get dashboards of the most relevant
content in real time so let's say we're
going to create our list for the
creative marketers uh an SEO persona for
the CRM keyword topic you can see here
that I'm going to go about uploading
those influencer entities that I've
identified in my audience intelligence
report into hoot Suite in this list Cru
and as a result I can then build
dashboards showing all of the latest um
conversations uh latest news and trends
for the uh influen entities that my SEO
personas are interested in and you can
see here at the top that I've I've
tagged I've called all of these lists my
keyword topic followed by my SEO Persona
and you've got a a dashboard now when
you're thinking about how you target the
CRM keyword topic you know your
audiences you know The Who Behind the
keyword topic and you can see in real
time uh the content that's resonating to
inform your content strategy uh and
digital PR
campaigns so some of the insights that I
might get from doing this listening is
that the fact that the UK is bringing in
new data protection laws um the fact
that there's a there's a lot of there's
a movement towards building Greater
authenticity within advertising uh at
the moment we've got
uh a lot of interest in understanding
how to build emotional connections um
and new Frameworks that are being
explored we've got conversations about
the importance of podcasting as we move
into 2024 there's chatter about nfts and
the metaverse uh essentially web 3
related topics uh within the CRM space
or or for those SEO personas that are
searching within the CRM keyword
topic and what we can then do is support
our CRM Hub Page by building out our
topic modeling or or some people call it
topic clustering um using that social
behavioral data so some examples of of
blog posts that I may uh create as a
result of setting this this process up
is building a checklist for preparing
your CRM for UK data protection laws how
to optimize your podcasts for email
newsletter signups predictions for CRM
strategies in the metaverse brand
emotional response index surveys uh an
expert opinion on how to build two-way
customer Communication in 2024 and how
to use podcasts to improve retention and
engagement now each of these blog posts
alone has the potential to generate
links uh they are they are helpful
content assets because we know that our
personas are interested in these topics
and they all should internally link
together and to your CRM Hub page to
bolster the performance of that CRM
topic cluster and as we know they're
relevant to our to our SEO personas of
marketing creative professionals Cloud
Engineers web entrepreneurs and digital
marketers and finally you know we can
also as much as we can create content uh
that lives on our site to support uh our
topic cluster uh we also going to need
to build links on our ongoing basis and
Link ideas can be really hard to come by
if you're using keyword data alone
because they don't give you enough
information about the interests and
behaviors of your target audience that
search using that keyword topic so what
you can then do is use this data to
ideate digital PR campaign ideas that
will build uh or will generate backlinks
so for instance from the data that I
just showed you you may want to create
brand emotional response surveys testing
different ad creatives to your users to
get uh information on which respond best
and then Distributing that out to the
influenc entities that were already
covering the topic we could create a
podcast ranking index by category
because we know podcasts are a very
effective medium that are being covered
a lot at the moment by those influencer
entities those websites that we want
links from we could survey Founders on
how they plan to grow online in 2024 and
their concerns about CRM or Exploration
with new channels such as the
metaverse and that's some ideas there
and I just want to say thank you
everyone for taking the time to listen
to the strategy today and for us to kick
off uh the coach by triple Dart series
together um and I will pause there for
any
Q&A super I think that is very
insightful already we have a couple of
question coming in and out of my
personal curiosity I have a couple of
questions as well so the first question
is how will we understand which audience
is more relevant for a particular
keyword great question so when you you
go about so let's say you are targeting
marketing software as a keyword topic
you identify the websites that rank for
marketing software you upload them to an
audience intelligence tool because
they're your SEO competitors for
marketing software that the audience
intelligence tool will give you data it
will give you a score that indicates the
um the the Affinity uh to the
to the um X handles that you uploaded
into it which are essentially your FCO
competitors so if you were to use
audience it gives you Affinity scores
and uniqueness scores um in the platform
under influencers and Brands and I would
recommend looking at that data to give
you an indication of exactly um which
influen entities or or which personas
themselves are the most relevant um
arguably to understand which persona is
most relevant uh you'll be able to see
in the broad view um the percentage of
those that were analyzed that are in any
given uh audience segment um so you saw
in the report that I shared for for CRM
that the largest um segment there were
were web developers um and Cloud
Engineers um and then you had creative
and marketing professionals uh and then
you had Salesforce Engineers an entire
category there and then finally you had
um uh your digital marketers um so I
would use that data to go by
understanding which personas are most
relevant for that keyword topic that
you're
targeting perfect thank thanks RoR the
second question we have is are those
topics and articles identified in the
SEO topic clustering need to be
optimized for the CRM keywords or are
those more thought leadership style
articles
great question great great great
question so what I would say here is
that your keyword intelligence process
your traditional SEO sort of process
that gives you your Evergreen content
pieces that gives you the content assets
that you're going to want to optimize
for Relevant keywords you know CRM plus
the subtopics that you've identified
within the CRM topic I would recommend
always trying to only have one URL per
um user intent grouping uh of keywords
within a topic um generally consisting
as a subtopic um that's important
because you don't want to cannibalize
your your your your keywords with
multiple URLs targeting the same keyword
intent grouping however this strategy
allows you then to get the ammunition to
create thought leadership that supports
the performance of those Evergreen sort
of traditional SEO
um content pieces they are the ones that
you're going to want to rank for the for
the keywords that you're probably
identifying your keyword research phase
but in order to continually publish
helpful content for users you're going
to want to adopt this process because
it's also going to be more relevant and
therefore encourage uh link building uh
or sorry attract Links at a greater Pace
than it would if you just created a sort
of static Evergreen keyword informed
blog post again with AI now um everybody
is going to be able to replicate that
same blog post with a couple of clicks
uh in a in a tool like Jasper um so
you're going to want to really level up
your thought leadership game um and this
approach should help you do
that perfect so we have a third question
but not directly related to the topic uh
um so I mean they're talking about
Google ads so how Google ads allows you
to Target based on a and Company size
Etc and you know how accurate is the
social listening data that we getting
through these tools when compared to
like say if you're having a paid
marketing strategy where you're also
working with something related to like
an in Market audience how different will
it be from the Google ads data to what
we are using with respect to social
listening
data great question so you know they are
different data sets because the data is
coming from interactions across
different platforms from from from
everything that I I'm aware of um I
would say that you have to be aware you
have to be prepared for some disparity
between the two however um with a sort
of solid framework that you build out in
your um G sheets or your Excel documents
uh you know you can you can sort of glue
glue the data together but I would just
you know be prepared that certainly if
you're doing paid um which isn't my my
my area of expertise there you know I I
presume you will get or I presume you
won't be able to fully um glue that data
together when you're talking about
audience sizes and you know how how
often you're going to reach a certain um
in Market segment ac across two
different data sets but um from an SEO
point of view or from a Content
marketing point of view that kind of
matters less
um and that's why sort of is effective
for uh for the organic
side perfect and we have an anonymous at
ND asking do you have any recommended
courses uh to learn digital
PR ah great question so do you know I
will always revert to learning seo. iio
um Al Solus um resource on learning SEO
so that's learning seo. and then within
that she has a section in there for uh
for sort of Link building um I can't
remember exactly what it's called and
there are links off to some of the be
best sort of digital PR resources um so
I would highly recommend taking a look
at that um and it will likely take you
off to various playbooks from some of
the sort of big player agencies um
around the
world perfect and and one last question
coming in from me RI uh so when when
you're using the social intelligence to
build Authority around the topic so one
thing that I've observed is uh you know
you don't have volumes for a lot of
these uh you know uh keywords that we
are looking for but it makes a lot of
sense as a standard on topic when
someone is talk and it requires deep
subject matter expertise and these are
common questions that keep getting asked
either uh like say if you're a product
manager or if you're a customer support
executive we commonly solving of
problems but these questions keep coming
up in your either support forums or you
can find it commonly occurring in a
platform like redit where they're
discussing about this particular topic
but when you go back and try mapping
that to you know intent on search it's
probably not there so uh how do we take
a call on bringing this as part of our
overall content
strategy yeah great great question a I
think this is going to be something that
the
community experiments with over the
coming years certainly as you know
visibility for some of those Community
platforms like Reddit is increasing
exponentially in Google search there's
value in um answering questions or
engaging directly in on those platforms
themselves um so that when users find
them through organic search they're
they're they're able to to to sort of
you're able to manage the uh the the
conversation there in terms of
specifically what content you would
create on your own channels like like
your website um you know I think that
does come down to a resourcing call
so still in
2024 it is Central to your strategy to
um have enough resource to historically
optimize the Evergreen SEO content that
you already have have in play so if you
were to ask me Rory should I go about
creating a thought leadership piece um
to link across to my evergreen asset
with a finite amount of resource that
doesn't allow me to refresh that asset
itself or historically optimize it after
it's been six months I would say I would
say definitely go about refreshing the
actual um SEO asset itself first and
then when you have the resources you can
go go about building out the thought
leadership um it is a balance um but I
just wanted to kind of Stack rank them
that the data that I see indicates that
regularly refreshing your content with
eat related signals which you can get
from this process if you consider um
leveling up your existing content rather
than creating new content um that is the
way to go um if it's a resourcing call
if it's not uh and you can optimize both
then I would balance that out across
your monthly publishing schedule um you
know in it's a pretty balanced
manner super I think yeah very
insightful Rory I think um uh I mean
whatever you have covered in the last 35
40 minutes I think we have a bunch of
takeaways uh and even personally for
triple dat as well because we we've been
contemplating on a bunch of these things
with the clients that we currently
working with so it's been really really
insightful again um thanks a lot for uh
doing this with us and being our
inaugural speaker for Coach by triple.
it has been a very insightful and an
inspiring webinar and for the audience
we hope you have gained uh valuable
knowledge and practical tips from you
know whatever RI has uh spoken about uh
we'll also kind of uh you know would
like to say that we will be sharing the
webinar recording and uh the slides for
you to kind of uh go through and also
thanks a lot for your engagement and
thoughtful questions and uh you know
active participation uh and just make
sure that the ending doesn't learn here
if you end here so if you have any
questions at any point of time just feel
free to you know drop in a note to us we
will be more than happy to answer those
questions because the and the motive
behind this session is also to make sure
that uh practical knowledge goes to each
one of you who are participating in
these sessions and how you can plug and
play these functional playbooks into
into your day-to-day strategy when it
comes to marketing thank you rori and
thanks a lot for doing
this thank you so much mahes thank you
everyone um and good luck for the rest
of the series uh I hope everyone has a
wonderful
day perfect thank you bye
bye-bye